##### A short README file containing our experience with the skeleton/utility code provided and documentation, and anything we found confusing.

It was our shared opinion that the skeleton code was rather vital, and it would definitely have been a lot harder on the graders if certain function names and argument lists were not standardized, because we wouldn't have written anything like it.  Certain little things, like having a few `--help` flags and the argparser written already, were extremely helpful when we had to add our own `--research` flag.  The skeleton code pointed out quite a few things that were not obvious to us that we would have wasted a lot of time finagling with.  

I will say, however, there were a few points in the skeleton code we assumed worked but were erroneously written.  I'm too crunched for time at the moment to go back and see, but there was some phrase essentially trying to take an array and return only those indices where it was 1, and it was written something like this: `new_y = something.y(y==1)` which really threw us off for a while.  There were a few spots like this where, at least it seemed like, due to some syntax nonsense, the skeleton code would not have worked at all, but then had the kind of inconspicous erros that take a long time to trace back to the source.  I am hoping you can figure out what those are through other students' readmes, but the deadline is coming up for me, so I can't go back and scan for them.  In the grand scheme of things, they were a small price to pay for certain parts of the skeleton code.

Also, the documentation was pretty helpful and we used it to write a lot of our own.  The Sting library also works flawlessly.